# Assignment 3

## Information about the repository

This repository contains the following:
- `linear_probing.h`
- `quadratic_probing.h`
- `double_hashing.h`
- `create_and_test_hash.cc`
- `spell_check.cc`

## Parts of the program completed

All parts completed.

`quadratic_probing.h`
- Contains(): removed const keyword to enable probe and collision counting (member variables).
- MakeEmpty(): unmodified.
- Insert(): unmodified for both normal and move inserts.
- Remove(): unmodified.
- Size(): returns current size of table.
- Capacity(): returns capacity of table.
- LoadFactor(): returns load factor of table (size/capacity).
- TotalCollisions(): returns total collisions counted from FindPos() function.
- AverageCollisions(): average collisions (total collisions/size). 
- ProbesUsed(): returns the number of probes used for the latest FindPos() function call by returning member variable probes_used_.
- IsActive(): unmodified.
- FindPos(): removed const keyword to enable probe and collision counting (member variables).
- Rehash(): unmodified.
- InternalHash(): unmodified.
- IsPrime(): function moved into the class itself to avoid conflict with other hashing implementations (errors).
- NextPrime(): function moved into the class itself to avoid conflict with other hashing implementations (errors).

`linear_probing.h`
- FindPos(): removed const keyword to enable probe and collision counting (member variables). Switched to linear probing, so offset variable removed and each iteration of while loop now increments current position by 1.

`double_hashing.h`
- Constructor: now accepts an r-value to use in double hashing. Default is 89 within the class.
- DoubleHash(): added a second internal hash function for double hashing implementation.

`create_and_test_hash.cc`
- If double hashing is used, default R value is 89 unless specified in command line argument.
- For all hashing implementations (linear, quadratic, double): insert words from words file into hash table, print attributes, then query table using query file.

`spell_check.cc`
- removePunctuation(): returns the supplied string parameter with its starting and ending punctuation, if any.
- toLower(): sets the string to all lowercase.
- swapChars(): swaps the characters of a string. Two positions to be swapped are supplied in the parameter.
- tryAlphabetChars(): updates the supplied vector parameter with alternative words to the supplied incorrect word. Alternative words are generated by adding one character from a-z into every position of the supplied string. The dictionary hash table is used to confirm whether the new string is a word in the dictionary.
- tryRemoveAChar(): updates the supplied vector parameter with alternative words to the supplied incorrect word. Alternative words are generated by trying to remove a char in every position of the supplied string. The dictionary hash table is used to confirm whether the new string is a word in the dictionary.
- trySwappingChars(): updates the supplied vector parameter with alternative words to the supplied incorrect word. Alternative words are generated by swapping two adjacent characters to see if it is a word in the dictionary.
- printAlternatives(): prints the resulting alternatives of a word deemed to be incorrect (not found in dictionary) as well as the case associated with the correction type (case type supplied from parameter).
- MakeDictionary(): opens dictionary file and inserts into the hash table using a while loop.
- SpellChecker(): opens document file and uses a while loop to read the document file word by word. Each word has its beginning punctuation removed and then set to lowercase to query the dictionary hash table for correctness. If input word from document file is found in the dictionary hash table, prints CORRECT, if it is not found, prints INCORRECT followed by alternative words.
- testSpellingWrapper(): unmodified.

## Bugs encountered

The number of probes and number of collisions don't match the expected output. This is most likely due to the program running on a different machine as described on the discussion board.
On gradescope autograder, it says, "your code output length mismatched." I'm unsure as to exactly what this means, my guess is the number of alternative words generated doesn't match the number of alternatives expected on gradescope. It may also be that the formatting of the output is mismatched.

## Input File

`words.txt`
`wordsEn.txt`
`document1.txt`
`document1_short.txt`
`query_words.txt`

## Output file

`expected_output.txt`

## Running the assignment

Use provided `Makefile` for Homework 3.

To compile on terminal, type:

```bash
make
```

You can compile one program individually by just typing `make <Program Name>`, for example:

```bash
make create_and_test_hash
```

```bash
make spell_check
```

To delete executables and object files, type:

```bash
make clean
```

To run create_and_test_hash, type:

```bash
./create_and_test_hash <words file> <query words file> <linear/quadratic/double> <r value>
```

```bash
./create_and_test_hash words.txt query _words.txt quadratic
```

```bash
./create_and_test_hash words.txt query_words.txt double 89
```

To run spell_check, type:

```bash
./spell_check <document file> <dictionary file>
```

```bash
./spell_check document1_short.txt wordsEn.txt
```
